Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.Java




What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.The Runtime Interpreter.
  The Compiler.
  The Applet Viewer.
  The Debugger.
  The Class File Disassembler.
  The Header and Stub File Generator.
  The Documentation Generator.
  Applet Demos.





What is IDE?
A.Integrated Development Environment



What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A.
NetBeans. NetBeans is an open-source Integrated Development Environment written in Java. ...
Eclipse. Eclipse is another free Java IDE for developers and programmers. ...
IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition.
Android Studio.
Enide Studio 2014.
BlueJ.
jEdit.
jGRASP.


Explain the entire java life cycle.
there is only 4 states in thread life cycle in java new, runnable, non-runnable and terminated. There is no running state. But for better understanding the threads, we are explaining it in the 5 states. The life cycle of the thread in java is controlled by JVM

what is class?
A class, in the context of Java, are templates that are used to create objects,
and to define object data types and methods. Core properties include the data types and methods that may be used by the object. All class objects should have the basic class properties

What is object?
A Java object is a combination of data and procedures working on the available data.
An object has a state and behavior. The state of an object is stored in fields (variables), while methods (functions) display the object's behavior. Objects are created from templates known as classes.

What is the entry point of an application?
Application entry points are used to control users' access to different versions of an application that is deployed on a platform.
They are also used to create an application context to monitor the resource usage for applications and to identify an application being run

Why main is static?
Java program's main method has to be declared static because keyword static allows main to be called without creating an object of the class in which the main method is defined. ...
Without having declared main method static , your program will successfully compile but won't execute and report error at run time.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Object is the super class of all other classes you use, including the ones you implemented.
And you'll see the following methods are inherited from Object in every class. java.lang.Object is a super class of any class by default. The root class of the Java class hierarchy

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Path is an environment variable which is used by the operating system to find the executables.
Classpath is an environment variable which is used by the Java compiler to find the path, of classes.ie in J2EE we give the path of jar files. 2).PATH is nothing but setting up an environment for operating system

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Main difference is methods of a Java interface are implicitly abstract and cannot have implementations.
A Java abstract class can have instance methods that implements a default behavior. ... An abstract class may contain non-final variables. Members of a Java interface are public by default

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
NO. Because an abstract class is an incomplete class (incomplete in the sense it contains abstract methods without body and output) we cannot create an instance or object;
the same way you say for an interface

what is Access Specifier?
Access specifiers are used to control the visibility of members like classes, variables and methods.
There are three access specifiers: public, private and protected. We shall see only about the public and private access specifiers for now. Protected access specifier comes into picture when inheritance is implemented

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Java OOP concepts let us create working methods and variables, then re-use all or part of them without compromising security.
abstraction, encapsulation, inheritance, and polymorphism.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
three packages are imported by default for each source file. ... Java compiler automatically imports this package. Second, the java.lang package is imported implicitly. Java is a pure object oriented programming language where code is written in form of classes. These class components are called types.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Application Program Interface
Google Maps, Twitter, YouTube, Flickr and Amazon Product Advertising


Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
No, Java Does not support multiple inheritance because it creates confusion and complexity. To avoid ambiguity error java does not support multiple inheritance through class. But through the interface, multiple inheritance is possible in java


What is method overloading and when it happens?
Method Overloading is a feature that allows a class to have more than one method having the same name, if their argument lists are different. It is similar to constructor overloading in Java, that allows a class to have more than one constructor having different argument lists

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
Exception handling is managed via five keywords: try, catch, throw, throws, and finally. ... Any exception that is thrown out of a method must be specified as such by a throws clause. Any code that absolutely must be executed after a try block completes is put in a finally block

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
Static keyword in Java is used for memory management mainly. We can apply java static keyword with variables, methods, blocks and nested class. The static keyword belongs to the class than an instance of the class. ... Variable (also known as a class variable) Method (also known as a class method)

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
Final is a non-access modifier applicable only to a variable, a method or a class.Following are different contexts where final is used. When a variable is declared with final keyword, its value can't be modified, essentially, a constant.
This also means that you must initialize a final variable.

What is final, finally and finalize?
What is a constructor ?
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
What is "this" keyword in java ?
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
What is JVM stand for ?
Is JVM platform independent?
What version of java are you using?
What is JAR stand for ?
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
What is compile time and run time?
What is heap?
How java manage it's memory?
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
What is Singleton class?
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
when to use transient variable in java?
Difference between while and do..while loop?
What is Enum?
What is Iterator?
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Why is String Immutable in Java?
What is constructor chaining in Java?
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
what is multithreading in java?
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
What is Framework?
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?









